hazing doesn't always work sometimes the
back continues to offend and may even
return after it has been relocated in
those cases Rangers have no recourse but
to euthanize the bear despite your
cemeteries best efforts to educate the
visiting public people continue to leave
food in parked cars encouraging bears to
learn bad habits a bold bear is a
dangerous bear I'm Julie hi I'm Doug
nice to meet you I'm a law enforcement
here in Yosemite and we're gonna just go
ahead and look through some cars and see
if we can find some food in it mmm
improper food storage and we'll go ahead
and tow the car so the Bears can't get
into it tonight I'm gonna move the ball
so I got a warning yesterday they didn't
clean it up they were due out today too
not quite enough to really notice of
doing this actually it's decided a box
of noodles is just too tempting for a
Hungry Bear Avvo telling looks drastic
it protects the cars and the Bears
3 a.m. and time to check the traps for
the last time the trap has been sprung
so we may be in luck
a sprung but empty trap is very unusual
and Kate suspects foul play
Coons or well-meaning but ill directed
people yep
or a very intelligent bear very
intelligent bear possible that he could
come and go out on his own
not possible
the mystery of the empty traps continued
so over the following days we set up an
infrared camera
what it discovered was smarter than your
average bear cleverly hid worked out
that by sticking his bottom out he could
reach the food and keep the door open
before being trapped it is disappointing
not seeing a bear firsthand but it does
show that hazing is working with bear
crime down by 80% this year Kate's team
are achieving incredible successes